user-manual/other.rst, before:

.. _other:

=====
Other
=====

.. _technologies-web:

---------------
Video tutorials
---------------

Gisquick video tutorials are available from `YouTube channel
<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCHXyhq_wrEBnGYTRJovxrCg/videos>`__.

.. note:: Gisquick is already minimally bound to GIS.lab. Gisquick is running in
          isolated Docker containers. However, these videos can be useful to you.

-----
Flyer
-----

Available from `GitHub repository
<https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-doc/tree/master/flyer>`__ in
SVG a PDF format.

------------
Technologies
------------

* `QGIS Desktop <http://qgis.org/en/site/>`__ and `Documentation
  <https://docs.qgis.org/3.10/en/docs/>`__
* `OpenLayers 3 <https://openlayers.org/>`__
* `AngularJS <https://angularjs.org/>`__
* `Cordova <https://cordova.apache.org/>`__
* `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`__
* `Python <https://www.python.org/>`__

.. todo:: Update technologies

.. _source-code-layout:
 
------------------
Source code layout
------------------

See Gisquick `GitHub repository <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-cli>`__.

See also other Gisquick GitHub repositories:

* `Gisquick QGIS plugin <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-qgis-plugin>`__
* `Gisquick documentation <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-doc>`__

--------
Releases
--------

* `Gisquick <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick/releases>`__
* `Gisquick QGIS plugin <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-qgis-plugin/releases>`__

-------
License
-------

`GNU General Public License
<https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick/blob/master/LICENSE>`__ version 2 or
later

..
   ------------------------------------------
   Alternative deploying method using Vagrant
   ------------------------------------------
   
   See :ref:`docker` for recommended deployment procedure.
   
   .. include:: administrator-manual/installation/vagrant.rst

Commit message:

Doc authors section #17
Added new section "Authors (documentation) to chapter "Other"
Updated 2019 to 2020 in footer

user-manual/other.rst, after:

.. _other:

=====
Other
=====

.. _technologies-web:

---------------
Video tutorials
---------------

Gisquick video tutorials are available from `YouTube channel
<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCHXyhq_wrEBnGYTRJovxrCg/videos>`__.

.. note:: Gisquick is already minimally bound to GIS.lab. Gisquick is running in
          isolated Docker containers. However, these videos can be useful to you.

-----
Flyer
-----

Available from `GitHub repository
<https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-doc/tree/master/flyer>`__ in
SVG a PDF format.

------------
Technologies
------------

* `QGIS Desktop <http://qgis.org/en/site/>`__ and `Documentation
  <https://docs.qgis.org/3.10/en/docs/>`__
* `OpenLayers 3 <https://openlayers.org/>`__
* `AngularJS <https://angularjs.org/>`__
* `Cordova <https://cordova.apache.org/>`__
* `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`__
* `Python <https://www.python.org/>`__

.. todo:: Update technologies

.. _source-code-layout:
 
------------------
Source code layout
------------------

See Gisquick `GitHub repository <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-cli>`__.

See also other Gisquick GitHub repositories:

* `Gisquick QGIS plugin <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-qgis-plugin>`__
* `Gisquick documentation <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-doc>`__

--------
Releases
--------

* `Gisquick <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick/releases>`__
* `Gisquick QGIS plugin <https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick-qgis-plugin/releases>`__

-------
License
-------

`GNU General Public License
<https://github.com/gislab-npo/gisquick/blob/master/LICENSE>`__ version 2 or
later

-----------------------
Authors (documentation)
-----------------------
Documentation was updated within the subject **Free software GIS** at **Czech Technical University**
in Prague by Josef Münzberger, Svetlana Usik and Zuzana Vaňková.

..
   ------------------------------------------
   Alternative deploying method using Vagrant
   ------------------------------------------
   
   See :ref:`docker` for recommended deployment procedure.
   
   .. include:: administrator-manual/installation/vagrant.rst
