user-manual/project-publishing.rst, before:

.. |plugin| image:: ../img/logo.png
   :width: 2.5em

.. _project-publishing:

==================
Project publishing
==================

This section explains the process of publishing QGIS map project. It is
assumed that `QGIS Desktop
<http://qgis.org/en/site/forusers/download.html>`__ together with
:doc:`Gisquick plugin <../administrator-manual/installation/plugin>`
is installed on the user machine.

It is also assumed that Gisquick platform is running on the
**publication server**. Such server can be run on your own hardware or
in cloud services, see
:doc:`../administrator-manual/installation/docker` section for
details.

.. tip:: |tip| Gisquick provides ready-to-use **demo publication server**
   available at https://projects.gisquick.org, freely available for
   experiments and testing.
   
QGIS project dedicated for publishing is prepared in the standard
way. Map layers can be combined from various data sources like flat
files (Esri Shapefile, GML), file-based databases (SQLite,
SpatiaLite), server-client databases (PostGIS) or OGC Web Services
(WMS, WFS, WCS).

Before publishing project using Gisquick plugin, the project must be
saved.

.. important:: |imp| When using flat files or file-based databases as
   data stores it is recommended to save all the files (data and QGIS
   project) in the same directory. QGIS project must be set up to use
   **relative** paths (see *Project Properties*).

   When using any kind of authentication (databases, web services) it
   must be ensured that server used for publishing will have access
   rights to such data sources.

Publishing QGIS project will be demonstrated on the :ref:`Prague sample
project <dataset-prague>` downloadable as a `zip file
<http://training.gismentors.eu/geodata/gisquick/prague.tar.gz>`__. At
first, sample :file:`prague.qgs` QGIS project is open in QGIS
Desktop. Before doing any changes the project will be published as it
is.

.. figure:: ../img/qgis-prague.png

   Prague sample project loaded in QGIS.

The publication process is started by Gisquick QGIS plugin
|plugin|. The plugin is designed as a wizard to simplify publishing
process as much as possible.

First page of the wizard allows defining basic settings for publishing:

* **base layers**,
* **overlay layers** and
* basic **project metadata**.

.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-0.png

.. _publication-base-layers:

By **base layers** are meant typically WMS layers provided by QGIS
project. The ``Base layer`` sub-page also allows adding base layers provided by
external services like OpenStreetMap, MapBox or Bing.

.. important:: |imp| External base layers are available only when QGIS
   project is using WGS84 Pseudo Mercator projection (EPSG:3857).

Here also default base layer can be defined, see figure below.

.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-1.png

In the second ``Layers`` sub-page is controlled, simply by
checkboxes, which map layers will be published. It's also possible to
publish layer as hidden (ie. not shown in ``Overlay layers`` tab, see
:doc:`./user-interface` section). Top left checkbox ``Use cache``
controls usage of QGIS Server map cache. By default, map tiles are
cached by QGIS server and re-used when possible.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-2.png

.. _publication-metadata:

The last ``Project`` sub-page allows defining basic project metadata
like title, extent, min/max scales, info message, access constraints,
etc.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-3.png                        

.. _publication-topics:

In the following page **topics** can be defined. By topic it's meant
a group of thematically-related overlay layers. Topics can be easily
switched in ``Topics`` tab of Gisquick UI, see
:doc:`./user-interface` section. Layers which
should be part of a defined topic are simply checked. Topics can be
added or removed by buttons located in the bottom left part of the
dialog. Each topic has defined a short description (abstract) which is
shown by Gisquick UI.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-4.png

Last but one page shows a read-only **configuration summary**. It's the last
chance to go back by ``Back`` button and change publication settings.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-5.png

On the last page are displayed files need to be transferred to the
Gisquick publication server. The result of publication process is two
generated files: timestamped QGIS project (``.qgs``) and metafile
(``.meta``). These files together with project data (see ``Data
sources``) must be transferred to the publication server.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-6.svg            

.. _plugin-publish-directory:
   
When ``Publish`` button is pressed, the unique project file name with
timestamp together with its metafile is created. By default,
timestamped files are created in the same directory as the original QGIS
project. Optionally the destination directory can be changed by the
``Change`` button. In this case, data source files are also copied to
the newly defined directory.

The published project together with data can be optionally zipped into an
archive, which can be easily uploaded to the publication server, see
``Create project zip file for upload`` option.

Transferring project to publication server
------------------------------------------

The publication process is finished by transferring a project to the
publication server. The procedure will be explained on the **demo
publication server** (https://projects.gisquick.org).

.. note:: |note| The publication procedure can differ when running own
   Gisquick instance.

First of all, a new user account must be created on a publication
server. This can be done easily by filling the registration form available
at https://projects.gisquick.org/accounts/register/.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-0.svg

   Registration form for creating a new user account.

After pressing ``CREATE ACCOUNT`` button a confirmation mail should
be send to a given e-mail address.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-1.svg
   :width: 75%

   Completion of registration process will be done by pressing
   ``ACTIVATE ACCOUNT`` button.

Afterwards, a new user is notified about successfull singing-in.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-2.svg

   A new user account has been successfully created.

After clicking on ``CONTINUE`` button a new user will be redirected to
the publication server welcome screen.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-3.svg

   Gisquick demo welcome screen.

The user can log-in using credentials (user name and password). After
log-in Gisquick loads an empty project.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-4.png

   Empty Gisquick project loaded by default.

In the next step, the user can upload a prepared project zip file created
by Gisquick plugin as described in the section above. In the user menu go
to ``My profile`` (see :ref:`User profile page <user-profile-page>`
for details). Go to ``Upload project``, enter the project zip file and
upload the file using the ``Upload`` button.

.. figure:: ../img/user-page-upload.png

   Upload project zip file.

After successful upload go to ``My Projects`` and find your first
published project.

.. figure:: ../img/user-page-projects.png

   List of user published projects.


Click on it's name and enjoy Gisquick!

.. _gisquick-we-published:

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-published.png
   :align: center
   :width: 750

   QGIS project published with Gisquick.

Notes for advanced users running a testing environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Uploading step can be skipped when running publication server in
the testing enviromment. The publication directory is defined by
:file:`docker-compose.yml` configuration file. In the presented
:ref:`example <docker-publish-dir>` publication directory is located
in Gisquick source tree :file:`docker/_data/publish`.

.. figure:: ../img/docker-directory.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 450

   Publish directory provided by Docker containers.

Projects in the :file:`publish` directory are split into
sub-directories corresponding registered users, see
:doc:`../administrator-manual/user-management` section.

.. figure:: ../img/publish-directory.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 450

   Published project separated into user directories.

.. important:: |imp| When the user directory is not available in
   the :file:`publish` directory it's necessary to create it.

Then published QGIS project (including timestamped files) with all
associated data can be **copied** into user publish directory,
eg. :file:`docker/_data/publish/user1` directory located on the
publication server. In our example, the project will be copied into
:file:`docker/_data/publish/user1/prague` directory.

Published project is possible to access by URL formed by server name
(https://localhost in the case of virtual server), user name,
project directory and QGIS project file name, see URL below.
   
.. code:: 

   https://localhost?PROJECT=<user-name>/<project-directory-name>/<qgs-file-name>

As the final step, open web browser and launch published project in
Gisquick interface by entering URL, in our case
eg. https://localhost?PROJECT=user1/prague/prague.qgs.

.. _guest-session:

You will see welcome screen with possibility to enter credential but
for now, you can just ``Continue as guest``.

.. _gisquick-welcome:

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-welcome.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 750

   Gisquick welcome screen.

Advanced topics
---------------

.. _table-templates:

Table templates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. todo:: To be added.

Commit message:

project publishing: updated screenshots #4
Updated screenshots except those in the last chapter (Notes for advanced users running testing environment) which is considered to be deleted anyway (links don't work, I don't think it that the chapter is up-to-date)

user-manual/project-publishing.rst, after:

.. |plugin| image:: ../img/logo.png
   :width: 2.5em

.. _project-publishing:

==================
Project publishing
==================

This section explains the process of publishing QGIS map project. It is
assumed that `QGIS Desktop
<http://qgis.org/en/site/forusers/download.html>`__ together with
:doc:`Gisquick plugin <../administrator-manual/installation/plugin>`
is installed on the user machine.

It is also assumed that Gisquick platform is running on the
**publication server**. Such server can be run on your own hardware or
in cloud services, see
:doc:`../administrator-manual/installation/docker` section for
details.

.. tip:: |tip| Gisquick provides ready-to-use **demo publication server**
   available at https://projects.gisquick.org, freely available for
   experiments and testing.
   
QGIS project dedicated for publishing is prepared in the standard
way. Map layers can be combined from various data sources like flat
files (Esri Shapefile, GML), file-based databases (SQLite,
SpatiaLite), server-client databases (PostGIS) or OGC Web Services
(WMS, WFS, WCS).

Before publishing project using Gisquick plugin, the project must be
saved.

.. important:: |imp| When using flat files or file-based databases as
   data stores it is recommended to save all the files (data and QGIS
   project) in the same directory. QGIS project must be set up to use
   **relative** paths (see *Project Properties*).

   When using any kind of authentication (databases, web services) it
   must be ensured that server used for publishing will have access
   rights to such data sources.

Publishing QGIS project will be demonstrated on the :ref:`Prague sample
project <dataset-prague>` downloadable as a `zip file
<http://training.gismentors.eu/geodata/gisquick/prague.tar.gz>`__. At
first, sample :file:`prague.qgs` QGIS project is open in QGIS
Desktop. Before doing any changes the project will be published as it
is.

.. figure:: ../img/qgis-prague.png

   Prague sample project loaded in QGIS.

The publication process is started by Gisquick QGIS plugin
|plugin|. The plugin is designed as a wizard to simplify publishing
process as much as possible.

First page of the wizard allows defining basic settings for publishing:

* **base layers**,
* **overlay layers** and
* basic **project metadata**.

.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-0.png

.. _publication-base-layers:

By **base layers** are meant typically WMS layers provided by QGIS
project. The ``Base layer`` sub-page also allows adding base layers provided by
external services like OpenStreetMap, MapBox or Bing.

.. important:: |imp| External base layers are available only when QGIS
   project is using WGS84 Pseudo Mercator projection (EPSG:3857).

Here also default base layer can be defined, see figure below.

.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-1.png

In the second ``Layers`` sub-page is controlled, simply by
checkboxes, which map layers will be published. It's also possible to
publish layer as hidden (ie. not shown in ``Overlay layers`` tab, see
:doc:`./user-interface` section). Top left checkbox ``Use cache``
controls usage of QGIS Server map cache. By default, map tiles are
cached by QGIS server and re-used when possible.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-2.png

.. _publication-metadata:

The last ``Project`` sub-page allows defining basic project metadata
like title, extent, min/max scales, info message, access constraints,
etc.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-3.png                        

.. _publication-topics:

In the following page **topics** can be defined. By topic it's meant
a group of thematically-related overlay layers. Topics can be easily
switched in ``Topics`` tab of Gisquick UI, see
:doc:`./user-interface` section. Layers which
should be part of a defined topic are simply checked. Topics can be
added or removed by buttons located in the bottom left part of the
dialog. Each topic has defined a short description (abstract) which is
shown by Gisquick UI.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-4.png

Last but one page shows a read-only **configuration summary**. It's the last
chance to go back by ``Back`` button and change publication settings.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-5.png

On the last page are displayed files need to be transferred to the
Gisquick publication server. The result of publication process is two
generated files: timestamped QGIS project (``.qgs``) and metafile
(``.meta``). These files together with project data (see ``Data
sources``) must be transferred to the publication server.
            
.. figure:: ../img/project-publishing-6.svg            

.. _plugin-publish-directory:
   
When ``Publish`` button is pressed, the unique project file name with
timestamp together with its metafile is created. By default,
timestamped files are created in the same directory as the original QGIS
project. Optionally the destination directory can be changed by the
``Change`` button. In this case, data source files are also copied to
the newly defined directory.

The published project together with data can be optionally zipped into an
archive, which can be easily uploaded to the publication server, see
``Create project zip file for upload`` option.

Transferring project to publication server
------------------------------------------

The publication process is finished by transferring a project to the
publication server. The procedure will be explained on the **demo
publication server** (https://projects.gisquick.org).

.. note:: |note| The publication procedure can differ when running own
   Gisquick instance.

First of all, a new user account must be created on a publication
server. This can be done easily by filling the registration form available
at https://projects.gisquick.org/accounts/signup/.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-0.svg
   :width: 60%

   Registration form for creating a new user account.

After pressing ``CREATE ACCOUNT`` button a confirmation mail should
be send to a given e-mail address.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-1.svg
   :width: 75%

   Completion of registration process will be done by pressing
   ``ACTIVATE ACCOUNT`` button.

Afterwards, a new user is notified about successfull singing-in.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-2.svg

   A new user account has been successfully created.

After clicking on ``CONTINUE`` button a new user will be redirected to
the publication server welcome screen.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-3.png
   :width: 50%

   Gisquick login screen.

The user can login using credentials (user name and password). After
login Gisquick loads user's welcome page which includes list of already
published projects. After the very first login or in case that user hasn't
published any project yet, only the message appears stating how to proceed.

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-new-account-4.png
   :width: 75%

   User's welcome page after first login.

In the next step, the user can upload a prepared project zip file created
by Gisquick plugin as described in the section above. In the user menu go
to ``My profile`` (see :ref:`User profile page <user-profile-page>`
for details). Go to ``Upload project``, enter the project zip file and
upload the file using the ``Upload`` button.

.. figure:: ../img/user-page-upload.png

   Upload project zip file.

After successful upload go to ``My Projects`` and find your first
published project.

.. figure:: ../img/user-page-projects.png

   List of user's published projects.


Click on the blue map icon in the second column and enjoy Gisquick!

.. _gisquick-we-published:

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-published.png
   :align: center
   :width: 750

   QGIS project published with Gisquick.


Notes for advanced users running a testing environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Uploading step can be skipped when running publication server in
the testing enviromment. The publication directory is defined by
:file:`docker-compose.yml` configuration file. In the presented
:ref:`example <docker-publish-dir>` publication directory is located
in Gisquick source tree :file:`docker/_data/publish`.

.. figure:: ../img/docker-directory.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 450

   Publish directory provided by Docker containers.

Projects in the :file:`publish` directory are split into
sub-directories corresponding registered users, see
:doc:`../administrator-manual/user-management` section.

.. figure:: ../img/publish-directory.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 450

   Published project separated into user directories.

.. important:: |imp| When the user directory is not available in
   the :file:`publish` directory it's necessary to create it.

Then published QGIS project (including timestamped files) with all
associated data can be **copied** into user publish directory,
eg. :file:`docker/_data/publish/user1` directory located on the
publication server. In our example, the project will be copied into
:file:`docker/_data/publish/user1/prague` directory.

Published project is possible to access by URL formed by server name
(https://localhost in the case of virtual server), user name,
project directory and QGIS project file name, see URL below.
   
.. code:: 

   https://localhost?PROJECT=<user-name>/<project-directory-name>/<qgs-file-name>

As the final step, open web browser and launch published project in
Gisquick interface by entering URL, in our case
eg. https://localhost?PROJECT=user1/prague/prague.qgs.

.. _guest-session:

You will see welcome screen with possibility to enter credential but
for now, you can just ``Continue as guest``.

.. _gisquick-welcome:

.. figure:: ../img/gisquick-welcome.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 750

   Gisquick welcome screen.

Advanced topics
---------------

.. _table-templates:

Table templates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. todo:: To be added.
